Number input

Number input lets users enter a numeric value and incrementally increase or decrease the value with a two-segment control.

Number input with AI label is now stable. This addition changes the visual appearance of the component and introduces an AI explainability feature when AI is present in the component. See the AI presence section for more details.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

Number inputs are similar to text inputs, but are used to specify only a numeric value. Number inputs incrementally increase or decrease the value with a two-segment control. Number input reduces input efforts for adjusting small values.

Formatting

There are two styles of number inputs, default and fluid. They share the same functionality but look visually different, influencing where to use them.

A default style input is shown on the left and fluid style is on the right.

A default style input is shown on the left and fluid style is on the right.

Number input has three sizes default input heights: small, medium, and large. The width varies in size based on content, layout, and design.

There is only one fluid input height and it is visually larger than the default heights. The input is a set height of 64px except when a warning or error message has been added to the bottom.

Content

Do include a label

Do not hide a label that helps user understand the context of number input

Label, numeric value, and helper text should be short and not exceed two lines.

Behaviors

The number input has a series of states for both field and controls elements: enabled, hover, focus, error, warning, disabled, and read-only.

Users can click on the input field and change the value by typing inside the input field. Users can also increase or decrease the values by pressing on the add or subtract icon controls.

Users can navigate to the number input field by pressing Tab. Users can then increase the value by pressing Up arrow or decrease the value by pressing Down arrow.

An error state is triggered if the data is invalid or a required field is left empty. Error states have three visual indicators to signify invalid content: a red border, an error icon indicator, and an error message.

Numeric input should always have a default. The default will usually be ‘1’. Sometimes, you will have input value defaulted to ‘0’. For example, when booking a hotel room, it may set the default number of adults as ‘1’ and the default number of children as ‘0’.

Do set a clear default that most users are likely to select

Do not leave value input blank

AI presence

Number input has a modification that takes on the AI visual styling when the AI label is present in the input. The AI variant of number input functions the same as the normal version except with the addition of the AI label which is both a visual indicator and the trigger for the explainability popover.

For more information on designing for AI, see the Carbon for AI guidelines.

A number input can toggle between the AI variant and the non-AI variant depending on the user’s interaction. If the user manually overrides the AI-suggested content then the input will change from the AI variant to the non-AI variant. Once edited, the user should still be able to switch back to the initially AI generated content via a revert to AI button.

Related

References

Yuxuan (Tammy) Zhou, Design Guidelines for Input Steppers (Nielsen Norman Group, 2018)

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM