Notification

Notifications are messages that communicate information to the user. The four variants of notifications are toast, inline, actionable, and callout.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

Notifications provide a method for communicating with users and sharing feedback. They come in four statuses which when combined with the right variants make notifications that are relevant, timely, and informative for each use case. Their status signifies the purpose of the information being conveyed and allow you to tailor the disruptiveness of the notification to the specific situation.

Use notifications to inform users of updates or changes to system status. Communicating with users and providing immediate feedback are important for building trust. While notifications are an effective method of communicating with users, they are disruptive and should be used sparingly.

For more context on when to use each notification variant, including modals, refer to the notifications pattern. Carbon supports only inline, toast, actionable, and modal notification variants, although some product teams also support banners and notification centers.

A feature flag has been added to the actionable notification variant to improve accessibility and changes parts of its functionality, not its visual appearance. For code-specific feature flag information, refer to the Code tab. The current actionable notification is not being deprecated, but teams are encouraged to use the feature flag notification for their products moving forward. Once the next major release (v12) is released in the future, this feature flag will become the default version of the component.

Formatting

A. Icon
B. Title
C. Body content
D. Close button

A. Icon
B. Title
C. Body content
D. Close button
E. Action button

A. Icon
B. Title
C. Body content
D. Close button

A. Icon
B. Title
C. Body content
F. Link

Notification statuses are designed to convey the emotional tone of the information being communicated. Each status is associated with a specific color and icon, ensuring a consistent and universal user experience

Notification status for the inline variant

When choosing between the various notification statuses, consider the context and the emotion that needs to be conveyed. All notification variants, except for callout, typically serve as feedback after an action or task is completed. The callout variant is unique, as it provides guidance before users begin a task or take action and, therefore, does not include success or error statuses.

Content

Notifications provide limited space for content and, therefore, the content must be short and concise. Follow the guidance in IBM Style - Messages and write the message so the user can, by scanning the notification, be apprised of the situation and quickly know what to do next.

If a toast or inline notification requires a message that is longer than two lines, use an actionable notification and include a short message with a “View more” link that takes the user to a view of the full notification message. This destination can be either a full page with more details or a modal.

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Inline

Inline notifications show up in task flows to notify users of the status of an action or system. Inline notifications usually appear at the top of the primary content area or close to the item needing attention.

Examples of inline notification placements across different UI layouts

Examples of inline notification placements across different UI layouts

The width of inline notifications varies based on content and layout. They can expand to the fill the container or content area they relate to. Their height is based on the content length, which should not exceed two lines of text.

Inline notifications appear near their related items. They can expand to fill the width of the container or content area they are in and should align to the grid columns.

Place inline notifications at the bottom of forms, just above the submission and cancel buttons. When error notifications apply to individual text inputs, they should supplement the error state on that specific input field.

Examples of an inline notification supporting an error message on a form

Examples of an inline notification supporting an error message on a form

Inline notifications do not dismiss automatically. They persist on the page until the user dismisses them or takes action that resolves the notification.

A small “x” in the top right corner is used to dismiss inline notifications. Including the close button is optional and should not be included if it is critical for a user to read or interact with the notification.

Toast

Toast notifications are non-modal, time-based window elements used to display short messages; they usually appear at the top of the screen and disappear after a few seconds.

Examples of toast notification placements across different UI layouts

Examples of toast notification placements across different UI layouts

Toast notifications can include a time stamp at the bottom the container. The time stamp shows the time the notification was sent. Using time stamps is optional but toast notifications should be consistent across the product so either all toast notifications should include time stamps or none of them should. The time stamp is optional and can be removed if a third line of content is needed.

Toast notifications use a fixed width and their height depends on the length of the notification message. As noted in the content guidelines, limit toast notifications to two lines of text.

Toast notifications slide in and out from the top right of the screen. They stack with $spacing-03 in-between. New toast notifications should appear at the top of the list, with older notifications being pushed down until they are dismissed.

Toast notifications persist by default, but they can timeout and be coded to dismiss automatically after five seconds on the screen. They can also include a close button so users can dismiss them sooner. Toast notifications cover content on the screen so they should always be easily dismissed. Because toast notifications can dismiss automatically, users should be able to access them elsewhere after the toast notification disappears if they need more time to read the notification or who want to refer to it later.

Actionable

Actionable notifications are inline or toast notifications that have interactive elements. Because actionable notifications require user interaction, actionable notifications come into focus when triggered and, therefore, they disrupt screen readers and keyboard users. Only one action is allowed for each notification, and this action frequently takes users to a flow or page related to the message where they can resolve the notification.

Consider using a notification center where a user can revisit and act on past notifications.

Actionable inline notifications have a ghost button action that is adjacent to the title and body content. On mobile screens the action button wraps under the body content. This button should allow users to take further action on the notification.

Actionable toast notifications can include a tertiary button at the end of their body content. This button should be short and should take users to a page or modal where they can take action to address the notification or find further information. Because toast notifications automatically dismiss, ensure there are alternative routes to navigate to the link destination.

Actionable toast notification (top); actionable inline notification (bottom)

Actionable toast notification (top); actionable inline notification (bottom)

Actionable notifications persist until a user dismisses them. If you’re using inline styling, refer to inline notifications for inline dismissal. If you’re using toast-notification style for an actionable notification, the notification should remain on screen until the user dismisses it. Because the notification remains open, the user has enough time to interact with the button without the toast closing too soon. For more information, see toast notifications.

If needed, actionable notifications can contain links. Links within an actionable notification can be used to redirect the user to next steps.

If needed, actionable notifications can include a ghost button for inline notifications or a tertiary button for toast notifications. These action buttons enable users to address the notification or navigate to a page for more details.

Callout

Callouts are used to highlight important information contextually within the contents of the page, and cannot be dismissed. Unlike other notification components they are not triggered by the user or system, rather they load with the contents of the page. They do not act as a feedback mechanism, they are persistent, and always present on the screen to provide necessary information to the user.

Callout can be used within forms, dashboard, articles, etc when there is a need to highlight information. It’s designed to draw attention to important information that can prevent a negative user experience. Additionally, it can be used to emphasize details that guide users toward making informed decisions, ultimately enhancing their overall experience.

The callout variant only includes informational and warning statuses as they are provided to complete a user journey successfully. Hence, it does not include success and error statuses present in other notifications, which are reactive and provided as feedback after a task has been completed.

The title can be omitted on callouts when it is redundant and might break the flow while reading through the information. Use a title only if it makes it easier for people to scan through the content without diverting focus from the task.

The width of callout varies based on content and layout. They can expand to fill the container or content area they relate to. Their height is based on the content length.

Avoid overloading a single page with multiple callouts, and refrain from stacking them together. Callout should be used sparingly to emphasize information that must not be overlooked. For all other content, use a standard text component.

Callouts are related to a particular page element and should be positioned near it to associate them more effectively.

Example of how a callout is placed when an inline error notification appears

Example of how a callout is placed when an inline error notification appears

Unlike other notifications, callouts do not dismiss because they are used to highlight important information for the user that cannot be dismissed. They are always present on the screen and load with the contents of the page.

If needed, callouts can contain links. Links on callout should be used only when it provides additional context or relevant information necessary for the current user journey. It should not be used to promote navigation to a separate user journey.

Unlike actionable notifications, callouts do not contain an action button of their own. Place the callout near an action button instead as they are meant to contextually provide information for users before they take an action.

Universal behaviors

A user can close a dismissible notification by clicking the close x

For actionable notifications, the action gets focus first. Use Tab to move between action and the close x. To close notifications, press Enter or Space while the close x has focus or use the Esc key.

VoiceOver: To close notifications, press Enter or Space while the close x has focus or use the Esc key.

JAWS: To close notifications, press Enter or Space while the close x has focus or use the Esc key.

NVDA: To close notifications, press Enter or Space while the close x has focus or use the Esc key.

Modifiers

Carbon supports high and low contrast style notifications. High-contrast notifications are best for critical messaging while low-contrast notifications are less visually disruptive for users.

It’s up to the product team to decide which notification style to use in their product. Callouts, inline, and toast notifications can use different styles, but you should never mix styles within each notification variant. When in doubt, use low-contrast notifications.

High contrast notification (top); low contrast notification (bottom)

High contrast notification (top); low contrast notification (bottom)

Related

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM