Link

Links are used as navigational elements. They navigate users to another location, such as a different site, resource, or section within the same page.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

Links are used as navigational elements and can be used on their own or inline with text. They provide a lightweight option for navigation, but like other interactive elements, too many links will clutter a page and make it difficult for users to identify their next steps. This is especially true for inline links, which should be used sparingly.

Use links when you want users to:

Do not use links for actions that will change data or manipulate how it is displayed, change a state, or trigger an action. Instead, use buttons to guide users to specific actions.

Do not use images as links. Instead, use a tile that can contain an image and additional information such as links.

Formatting

There are three size variants for the link component: small, medium, and large. Inline link sizes should match the type size of the text it is inline with. Standalone link sizes should match the default body copy size of the page.

Sizing applies to both standalone and inline links

Inline links usually sit within a sentence or paragraph, while standalone links can sit on their own, separated from other text. Consider reducing the number of inline links in a single sentence to simplify the message.

Example of inline link in a notification

Example of standalone link in a card

Content

Use the appropriate icon to convey the link destination. It’s common to use the “launch” icon for external links and the “arrow right” icon for internal links. Whatever icons you choose to use, ensure that the same icons are used consistently for navigating to or launching new pages.

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s Content guidelines.

Universal behaviors

States

List has six main states – enabled (unvisited), hover, focus, active, visited, and disabled. Learn more about states on the Style tab.

Users can open a link by clicking anywhere on the link text or on the associated icon.

Users can open a link by pressing Enter while the link has focus. For additional keyboard interactions, see the Accessibility tab.

Clicking or activating on a link can:

Both standalone and inline links are clickable across the entire width of the text. Standalone link with an icon has an expanded clickable area that includes the icon.

Standalone and inline links with their clickable areas

Standalone link

Standalone links are used on their own directly following content. They should not be used within sentences or paragraphs. Standalone links are the default link style for Carbon and only have an underline in the hover state, focus state, and active state.

The standalone link component can be paired with an icon. Icons should always be the same color as the link text. When necessary, utilize appropriate icons to distinguish them from ghost buttons or inline links when they appear within the same context or page.

Example shows the standalone link within context

Inline links are used in sentences or paragraphs of text. The inline link behaves the same as the standalone link but it is styled with an underline. This helps differentiate them from the text they are placed next to and makes it clear users can interact with them.

Inline links should not be used on their own and should not be paired with icons.

Example shows inline links within the body text

Modifiers

By default, the link component does not use a visited style. Visited links indicate that a user has already opened the link so they can be a helpful indicator during task completion. Visited styles should be used sparingly because they often clutter the page and add further visual noise as users are trying to navigate a product. They can be used to show users they have already clicked on a link if it’s important.

Example shows unvisited and visited links

Some links trigger actions to aid task completion in addition to navigation. These links should still serve a navigation purpose. A common example is linking phone numbers, so clicking the website automatically opens and calls the phone number when clicked. The link text and any accompanying icons should clarify what action will be triggered and where the user will be directed.

Example shows inline links for email

Do use links when actions navigate users to resources

Do not use buttons when actions serve as a navigation purpose

Code unavailability The following specs are not developed for the link component but are recommended by design as the proper distance between grouped links. View the Style tab for details.

Links can be grouped horizontally or vertically. One variation displays links in a horizontal row with an icon and is typically used within the main body of the page. Vertical links are typically used for resource links on the side of the main page content or additional links in tiles.

Example shows horizontal and vertical grouping of links

Related

Buttons are used to initialize an action. Button labels express what action will occur when the user interacts with it. For further guidance, see Carbon’s button.

Tiles are a highly flexible component for displaying a wide variety of content, including information, getting started, how-to, next steps, and more. For further guidance, see Carbon’s tile.

Reference

Jakob Nielsen, Guidelines for Visualizing Links, (Nielsen Norman Group, 2004)

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM