Text input

Text inputs enable users to enter free-form text data. You can use them for long and short-form entries.

Text input and text area with AI label are now stable. These additions change the visual appearance of the components and introduces an AI explainability feature when AI is present in the components. See the AI presence section for more details.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

Text inputs enable users to enter free-form text data. The type of text field used should reflect the length of the content you expect the user to enter. The default text input is for short, one-line content, whereas text area is for longer, multi-line entries.

Text input

Use a text input when the expected user input is a single line of text. Text inputs have a fixed height and are used to enter simple free-form data entries with any combination of letters, numbers, or symbols. There are two styles of text input, default and fluid, which share the same functionality but look visually different. The context of how or where the component is used will dictate which style to use.

There are three text input height sizes: small, medium, and large. Supporting three sizes gives you more flexibility in structuring layouts. Be sure to use a consistent field height when pairing form components on the same page.

There is only one fluid input height and it is visually larger than the default heights. The input is a set height expect for when a warning or error message has been added to the bottom.

Text area

Use a text area when the expected user input is more than a few words and could span multiple lines. It is commonly used for features like user commentary or descriptions. It supports all the same states and functionality as text input except for the password functionality. Text area has several unique functionalities not included in the text input, like the resize handle, word counter and character counter.

Text area has a variable height that can be lengthened or shortened by the user using the resize handle in the bottom right of the field. By default, text area has a minimum height of 40px/2.5rem but no maximum height.

Included by default in both default and fluid text area is the resize handle. It allows a user to manipulate the field height by making it longer or shorter. The resize handle has no effect on the width of the text area container, it only effects the height. If the user makes the field size shorter than the content inside the field then a vertical scroll will become available.

Formatting

Input labels should vertically align to the grid and with other type elements on the page. The alignment of the input container will differ based on the style of text input you are using. Default inputs are always flush to the columns and fluid inputs will hang into the gutters.

Align default input containers to the grid so the input label aligns with other type of the page.

Hang fluid input containers into the gutters so the input label aligns with other type of the page.

The field widths of both text input and text area should reflect the intended length of the content while still aligning to the grid columns or mini unit grid. Unlike the height, the width of the text area cannot be controlled by the user. There are no minimum or maximum widths but you should avoid excessively wide fields that are disproportionate to the intended data being collected.

Do make text input widths proportional to the content and align to grid columns.

Do not make text inputs excessively wide just to fill in space.

Labels and field containers should vertically align to the grid and with other form components on a page.

Do align field containers to the grid.

Do not align field text to the grid and hang the field in the gutter.

Content

Effective labeling helps users understand what information to enter into a text input. Text fields should always have a label. There are rare instances were the context of an input negates the need for a visible label but we advise you consult an accessibility expert before proceeding with a label-less design.

Optional helper text is pertinent information that assists the user in correctly completing a field. It is often used to explain the correct data format.

Optional placeholder text provides hints or examples of what to enter. Placeholder text disappears after the user begins entering data into the input. As such, it should not be used as a replacement for a persistent label nor should it contain crucial information.

If a user’s content is unexpectedly too long for the single line of a text input then the value content can horizontally scroll inside the field container when moving the cursor from one end of the value to the other.

If a user’s content exceeds the vertical space of the variable text area then a user can either expand the field container using the resize handle or they can vertically scroll the content inside the set field container.

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Universal behaviors

The behaviors listed in this section are universal across all variants. For behaviors that are unique to each variant, see each of the component variant sections below.

The text input and text area have multiple interactive states: enabled, active, focus, error, warning, disabled, skeleton, and read-only. For more details on text input and text area interactive states, see the style tab.

Real-time validation helps streamline the process and keep data clean when the user fills out forms. Otherwise, validate the text input data when the user submits the associated form. For complete guidance on error and validation, see the form pattern.

An error state is triggered if the data is invalid or a required field is left empty. Error states have three visual indicators to signify invalid content: a red border, an error icon indicator, and an error message.

Text inputs can be labeled as either optional or required depending on the depending on the circumstance. For more guidance on requirement labeling, see the form pattern.

If the majority of the fields are required, mark only the optional field labels with (optional).

If the majority of the fields are optional, mark only the required field labels with (required).

Users can activate a text input by clicking on the field container. A separate click is required to activate any additional actions associated with the text input such as a password visibility toggle.

For additional keyboard interactions, see the accessibility tab.

Modifiers

Password input is a sub-variant of text input. It is used to collect private data and will hide the characters as a user enters them. A user can choose to toggle on the character visibility by clicking the view icon on the far right of the input field. When using a password input be sure to provide detailed helper text listing any requirements related to the data format, such as types of characters allowed or date structure.

A character counter can be added to text area to indicate both the number of characters being entered and the total number of characters allowed. Once the max number of characters is reached the text area should prevent the user from entering any additional character and provide messaging to the user that a limit has been met.

A word counter can be added to text area to indicate both the number of words being entered and the total number of words allowed. Once the max number of words is reached the text area should prevent the user from entering any additional character and provide messaging to the user that a limit has been met.

AI presence

Text input and text area have a modification that takes on the AI visual styling when the AI label is present in the input. The AI variant functions the same as the normal version except with the addition of the AI label which is both a visual indicator and the trigger for the explainability popover.

For more information on designing for AI, see the Carbon for AI guidelines.

The text input and text area can toggle between the AI variant and the non-AI variant depending on the user’s interaction. If the user manually overrides the AI-suggested content then the input will change from the AI variant to the non-AI variant. Once edited, the user should still be able to switch back to the initially AI generated content via a revert to AI button.

Related

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM