Structured list

Structured lists group content that is similar or related, such as terms and definitions.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

Structured list displays a simple list with a considerable amount of items in multiple rows. It helps organize and present grouped information into logical and scannable patterns. The content within a structured list can be stacked to create hierarchy within the data. Structured lists can have read-only or selectable rows.

A feature flag has been added to the selectable variant of structured list to improve accessibility and changes its visual appearance, not its functionality. For code-specific feature flag information, refer to the Code tab. The current selectable structured list is not being deprecated, but teams are encouraged to use the feature flag structured list for their products moving forward. Once the next major release (v12) is released in the future, this feature flag will become the default version of the component.

The following are the feature flag changes made to structured list.

Formatting

The structured list is available in two different height sizes: default and condensed. The structure list’s width varies based on content and layout.

Default and condensed height sizes for structured list

The structured list is available in two alignment styles: hang and flush. The flush alignment is not offered with selectable functionality.

Hang and flush alignment for structured list

Content

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Default

Default structured lists are used to display simple information to the user. These lists usually consist of read-only information and rows are not selectable.

Example of default structured list in a UI

Anatomy of default structured list

The default structured list has an enabled and skeleton state and no interactive states because it is not operable by a mouse or keyboard. For more information on default structured list states, see the Style tab.

Selectable

Selectable structured lists work well for presenting options to a user in an ordered manner to make a selection, such as a set of pricing plans.

Selectable structured list has an available feature flag.

Anatomy of selectable structured list with a feature flag

The selectable structured list have enabled, hover, focus, selected, disabled, and skeleton states. For more information on selectable structured list states, see the Style tab.

The selectable structured list rows are clickable. You can click anywhere on the row to select it.

Clickable areas of selectable structured list with a feature flag

Clickable areas of selectable structured list with a feature flag

Modifiers

Structured lists can have a background color option. The background color option is only available for the hang alignment.

Example of the color background modifier applied to structured list

Example of the color background modifier applied to structured list

Related

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM