Contained list

Contained lists group content that is similar or related and can contain read-only or interactive information.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

Contained lists are commonly used inside of containers like cards, sidebars, and disclosure situations. These lists have one header column of information with multiple list item rows. Contained lists help you organize related content within smaller spaces within a user interface and allow you to include inline actions and interactive elements.

Formatting

Contained lists are made up of a list header area, list title, list item rows, and optional interactive elements.

Contained lists can have multiple sections and stack on top of each other. When stacking multiple on-page lists, there should be 16px padding ($spacing-05) between each list. When stacking multiple disclosed lists, stack them to be flush with 0px padding between each other.

Contained list header areas can be sticky and fixed in place while the list item rows scroll underneath. This functionality is optional depending on the use case.

Content

On-page list

Use the on-page list variant when placing the list on the general page of a user interface. On-page lists typically appear in smaller spaces, like in a card or sidebars. The on-page list styling has no visible background header with fixed information. If there are scrolling capabilities, the header will remain sticky and have a background layer to differentiate it from the list item rows scrolling beneath it.

On-page lists should span the entire width of the container they are placed within to make the best use of space and to achieve vertical type alignment with other text and components on the page.

The on-page list comes in four height sizes — extra large (64px), large (48px), medium (40px), and small (32px). The large height size is the default size.

The list header height is always fixed, while list item row heights can vary based on the amount of content in each row. The content in each row is flexible, but by default each list item row height follows the extra large, large, or small height size for one line of content.

Disclosed list

Use the disclosed list variant when placing the list within a temporary context, like a popover or disclosure, which is typically accompanied by an enclosed border or drop shadow. The disclosed list styling has a background layer underneath the header. Each header has a smaller height than the on-page list styling to take up less real estate in the smaller and scrollable spaces it usually appears in.

Disclosed lists should span the entire width of the container they are placed within to make the best use of space.

The disclosed list header has a 32px height and the list item rows by default have a 48px height. The disclosed list often appears in small, restricted places so keeping a shorter height can save valuable space and reduce the amount of vertical scrolling.

Similarly to the on-page list variant, the list header height is always fixed, while list item row heights can vary based on the amount of content in each row. The content in each row is flexible, but by default each list item row height follows a 48px height for one line of content.

Modifiers

Depending on the use case you can inset contained list row dividers. By default, use extended row dividers for row items. Typically indented row dividers are used when placed close to other components that also contain row dividers so they do not collide with each other and create visual tension.

Contained lists support clickable rows as an optional feature.

Contained lists can include inline actions, such as closing or dismissing row items in the list.

Contained lists can have interactive elements in headers and rows, such as links, icon buttons, and toggles. Contained lists can also have multiple row columns. Additional row columns act as list item details pertaining to the first list item in the row. If your list has an excess of row columns and needs multiple column headers, we recommend using a data table instead.

Contained lists can have non-interactive icons positioned before the text in each row to help visually describe the list item, category, or status. These icons are decorative elements and are used for visual purposes only. Icons should typically be the same color as the text in the row unless they are status indicators.

Contained lists can include a search or filter functionality. The search or filter can collapse and expand in the list header area or stay persistent on the page below the list header area, depending on the use case.

Related

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM