List

Lists are vertical groupings of related content. List items begin with either a number or a bullet.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

The list component displays related content in a structured and scannable format. It helps users easily navigate and understand grouped information. Lists can be styled as unordered (bulleted) or ordered (numbered) based on their content hierarchy and importance. They are commonly used for navigation menus, data presentations, and form-related elements.

Example of the list component in a UI

Formatting

Unordered and ordered lists are both comprised of a marker and a list item.

Anatomy of unordered and ordered list variants

A. Marker (level 1)
B. Marker (level 2)
C. List item (level 1)
D. List item (level 2)

A. Marker (level 1)
B. Marker (level 2)
C. List item (level 1)
D. List item (level 2)

The list is available in two type sizes: productive and expressive. The productive list utilizes $body-01, while the expressive list uses $body-02. The productive list is best suited for functional, task-oriented experiences, whereas the expressive list is designed for more visual, engaging experiences. In most product designs, the productive list will likely be the preferred choice.

Productive and expressive type sizes for list

Lists are typically presented in a vertical format to maintain readability and clarity. Avoid placing individual list items horizontally, as it disrupts grid alignment and reduces readability. However, separate list groups can be placed side by side if they align with grid columns.

Example shows the list with a large number of list items

Do align the list vertically for clarity.

Do not align the list horizontally, as it disrupts readability.

For ordered lists with two-digit (10+) or more digit items, align numbers either left or right to maintain a clear structure without misalignment. By default, numbers are left-aligned, but there is an option to switch between the two.

Number alignment in ordered lists for two or more digit items.

Number alignment in ordered lists for two or more digit items.

Lists can include nested items to indicate hierarchy or subcategories, with indentation distinguishing each level.

Unordered and ordered lists with nested items

List items should be concise, aligning with grid columns to maintain a structured layout. Avoid overly long sentences; if content exceeds the available space, it should wrap to multiple lines rather than forcing excessive width.

Do align list markers flush with the grid.

Do not let list markers hang into the grid gutters.

Content

Text in a list should wrap below the marker, keeping it top-aligned with the first list item to ensure readability. Truncation should be avoided and text should instead wrap to multiple lines.

Text wrapping for unordered and ordered lists

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Unordered list

Unordered list is a collection of items presented without a specific order. Each list item begins with an en dash, making it ideal for non-sequential content.

Example of the unordered list variant in a UI

Ordered list

Ordered list is a collection of items presented without a specific order. List item begins with a number, indicating its position, making it suitable for sequential content.

Example of the ordered list variant in a UI

Related

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM