Pagination

Pagination splits content or data into several pages, with a control for navigating to the next or previous page.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

Pagination organizes and divides large amounts of content on separate pages and gives the user control over how much content they want to view on each page. Pagination can be used with a data table or on a page.

Example of the pagination component in a UI

Formatting

Anatomy of the pagination variant

Anatomy of the pagination nav variant

The pagination component is available in three sizes in both variants: large, medium, and small.

Sizes of pagination

Sizes of pagination nav

We recommend using the same height pagination as you do for the data table component rows to which it is connected. In some cases, the height sizes of these two components will not be the same because we do not offer extra small and extra large sizes for pagination. When using the extra large data table row height, use the large pagination. When using the extra small data table row height, use the small pagination.

Size pairings of the pagination and data table components

Place the pagination near the related component or area of the page where the information will be paginated.

When using the pagination variant with a data table, the pagination should be stacked and below the table with no padding between them.

Placement of the pagination variant

Do stack the pagination component below the data table.

Do not stack the pagination component above the data table.

When using the pagination nav variant on a page, float it below the content to which it is paginating and related to. The pagination can be right aligned or left aligned to the content above it. When it doubt, choose right alignment.

Placement of the pagination nav variant

Content

The label text in the pagination component should be concise and instructional. It describes the items per page and the number of pages or items. We recommend not modifying the label text unless necessary for specific use cases.

The select components option text is shown as a number, indicating the items per page and the current page. Alternatively, this can be indicated as a word for the “Items per page” selection instead of a number.

In the pagination nav variant, an ellipsis button appears between pages to indicate that there are numerous pages to navigate to within the ellipsis button menu. We recommend never placing the ellipsis button at the beginning or end of a series of pages in the pagination component.

Example of the ellipsis button for overflow content in the pagination nav variant

Example of the ellipsis button for overflow content in the pagination nav variant

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Pagination

The pagination variant is typically a bar attached to the bottom of a data table to paginate its data.

Example of the pagination variant in a UI

The pagination variant has the select component and ghost icon button component nested within it and inherits their component states. For more information on these states, refer to the select and ghost icon button style tab guidance.

The pagination variant retains all its content and nested components at every breakpoint except for the small breakpoint. The select components have been removed at the small breakpoint, but information on the total number of items, items being displayed, and previous and next buttons remain.

Pagination variant responsive behavior in all breakpoints versus the small breakpoint

Pagination variant responsive behavior in all breakpoints versus the small breakpoint

Within the pagination variant, there are four clickable areas. Two select components allow you to change the number of items per page and the page number. Two ghost icon buttons take you to the previous or next page.

Pagination variant clickable areas

Pagination nav

The pagination nav variant is most commonly used to paginate full pages or sections of content on a page. It floats under and near the related content.

Example of the pagination nav variant in a UI

The pagination nav variant has the ghost icon button component and the
breadcrumb overflow button component nested within it that inherits their
component states. For more information on these states, refer to the select and breadcrumb overflow button style tab guidance.

In small screens, the pagination nav variant can provide an ellipsis button to indicate there are more pages to navigate to within the ellipsis button menu.

Pagination nav variant responsive behavior in large versus small breakpoints

Pagination nav variant responsive behavior in large versus small breakpoints

Every button in the pagination nav variant is clickable. Two ghost icon buttons take you to the previous or next page. The rest of the page number buttons take you to that particular page.

Clickable areas within the pagination nav variant

Modifiers

For the pagination nav variant, instead of turning off the previous or next caret buttons when you reach either the first or last page of the pagination component, you can enable the option to loop through the available pages continuously.

By default, the select component option text is displayed as a number, showing items per page and the current page. However, we offer an alternative option to use a word instead of a number for the “Items per page” selection if that better meets your requirements.

Select components content alternative of numbers versus words

Related

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM