Content switcher

Content switchers allow users to toggle between two or more content sections within the same space on the screen.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

Content switchers allow users to toggle between alternate views of similar or related content, showing only one content section at a time.

Example of a content switcher in a UI

Content switchers are frequently used to let users toggle between different formats, like a grid view and a table view. They are also often used to narrow large content groups or to sort related content. For example, a messaging tool may use a content switcher to divide messages into three views such as “All,” “Read,” and “Unread.”

When navigating between distinct content areas like subpages, use tabs instead of a content switcher. Tabs follow the metaphor for sections in a filing cabinet, and two tabs wouldn’t contain the same sheet of paper, so the role of tabs in the information hierarchy is to separate content.

Content switcher is often used with tabs but at a lower hierarchy to sort related contents within that tab content.

For binary actions or choices, such as “yes/no” or “on/off” use a toggle instead of a content switcher. A content switcher can be used for binary views, like switching between a grid and list view but should not be used as a binary input control.

Formatting

Anatomy of a content switcher

There are three height sizes for the content switcher—small (32px), medium (40px), and large (48px). Choose a size that best fits your layout’s density or the switcher’s prominence.

Each content tab in the group should be the same width. The content tab with the longest label text should have at minimum 16px spacing to the right of the label.

Do base content tab width on the longest label text.

Do not use a different width for each content tab.

Each content tab in the group should be the same fixed width. Do not stretch the content tab container to different proportions.

Do keep a fixed width container so the height always equals the width.

Do not use different container sizes or extend the container width so it does not equal the height.

A content switcher can align to a grid column or hang in the gutter to create type alignment. Use layout and hierarchy cues to determine which alignment is best. In contained space, the content switcher should never be flush to an edge and instead left-align with other content in the container.

Do vertically align switchers with other page content.

Do not flush align the switcher to the edges of containers.

For content-driven widths, the content tab with the longest label text should have 16px spacing to the right of the label, and then the widths of all other tabs should match that widest tab.

Example shows the content-driven switcher’s text does not align with the grid.

Example shows the content-driven switcher’s text does not align with the grid.

For grid-aware width, the content switcher spans a set of columns, with each tab being equal in size. Depending on placement, the first tab or the tab’s label should align with the first column you are using, with the last tab in the group always ending at a column’s edge. The tabs in between will flow accordingly and may or may not align with the grid, but they will always be the same width.

Example shows the grid-aware switcher’s text aligns on the grid.

Example shows the grid-aware switcher’s text aligns on the grid.

Place the content switcher above the content area to create a clear hierarchy for the section that the switcher controls. It can be aligned to the left or right side of the content area but should never be centered in the content space.

Content

Do phrase labels as nouns or noun phrases

Do not phrase labels as actions

If the label text is too long in a content tab, add an ellipsis and accompany it with a browser-based tooltip to show the full string of text. If a label is too long to fit within its control tabs, consider using the icon modifier.

Content switcher label text truncation

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Behaviors

Content switchers have two main enabled states: unselected and selected. Other interactive states are hover, focus, and disabled. Learn more about states on the Style tab.

Users can activate and navigate between content switcher tabs by clicking a content tab.

Users can activate the content switcher by pressing tab and then navigating between content switcher tabs by pressing the left or right arrow.

Users can choose to automatically change the selection on focus of the selected content tab, or manually change the focus state of the unselected content tab between tabs. For additional keyboard interactions, see the Accessibility tab.

Icon content switchers are compact and do not take up much screen space, therefore they often work in different screen sizes. Where necessary, icon content switchers can also be used as a responsive replacement for content switchers.

Example shows the text content switcher turns into the icon content switcher in a smaller screen size.

Example shows the text content switcher turns into the icon content switcher in a smaller screen size.

The default view typically preselects one tab, usually the first tab. Only one content tab can be selected at a time, displaying its content. When a user chooses a new item, the previous tab deselects automatically, and the new item becomes selected. The first content tab in the switcher should be determined by usage and consistently serve as the default selection.

The content tab is clickable anywhere within the container.

Text and icon content switchers with their clickable areas

Modifiers

The content switcher is set to the high contrast style by default. However, Carbon also supports a low contrast style. High contrast content switchers are best suited for placement at a higher level in page hierarchy, such as at the top of a page or within a page header. When in doubt, use the high contrast style.

High contrast content switcher (top); low contrast content switcher (bottom)

High contrast content switcher (top); low contrast content switcher (bottom)

Low contrast content switchers may be used where they need to be less visually disruptive, such as in cards, modals, and when the component is placed near primary or secondary buttons.

Example of a low contrast content switcher in a UI

Use icons instead of label text to indicate alternative views of similar or related content. Icon content switchers are often used when space is limited or when icons can adequately describe the sections (for example, a list view versus a card view).

Do use consistent icon or text content switcher sections

Do not mix icon and text content switcher sections

Related

Tabs are used to organize related content. They allow the user to navigate between groups of information that appear within the same context. For further guidance, see Carbon’s tabs.

A toggle is used to quickly switch between two possible states. They are commonly used for “on/off” switches. For further guidance, see Carbon’s toggle.

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM