Toggle

A toggle is used to quickly switch between two possible states. They are commonly used for “on/off” switches.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

Toggle is a control that is used to quickly switch between two possible states. Toggles are only used for these binary actions that occur immediately after the user “flips the switch”. They are commonly used for “on/off” switches.

Example of the toggle component in a UI

A feature flag has been added to the toggle to adjust its label spacing and changes its visual appearance, not its functionality. For code-specific feature flag information, refer to the Code tab. The current toggle is not being deprecated, but teams are encouraged to use the feature flag toggle for their products moving forward. Once the next major release (v12) is released in the future, this feature flag will become the default version of the component.

The following is the feature flag change made to the toggle.

Formatting

Default and small toggles are both comprised of a label text, a toggle button, and a state text. Default toggles are required to display a component label and state text, unlike the small toggle, where both these elements are optional. The small toggle displays a checkmark tick in the “on” state to ensure the toggle is still accessible when label and state text are unavailable.

Anatomy of default and small toggle

A. Label text
B. Toggle
C. State text

A. Label text (optional)
B. Toggle
C. State text (optional)
D. Checkmark tick (on state)

The toggle component is available in two sizes: default and small.

Sizes of toggle

Content

The label text must accompany the toggle to provide additional context and clarify its state. However, the label text is optional for small toggle.

Use the state text to describe the binary action of toggle so that the action is clear. It must be three words or less and is displayed on the side of a toggle. The state text is optional for small toggle.

Use adjectives rather than verbs to describe actions and the state of the object affected.

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Behaviors

The default and small toggle have two main states: on and off. Other interactive states are focus, disabled, read-only, and skeleton. For more information on toggle states, see the Style tab.

Toggle component is triggered on Click which switches between the “on” and “off” states. It also has a visible focus state when selected, ensuring accessibility.

For keyboard navigation, users can focus the toggle using the Tab key, providing visual feedback for keyboard users. Pressing Enter or Space changes the toggle’s state between “on” and “off”.

The toggle component has two clickable areas: the toggle switch itself and the label associated with it. Users can click either area to change the toggle’s state.

Clickable areas of default and small toggle

Default toggle

The default toggle is larger in size than the small toggle. They are commonly used in forms and can appear within full pages of information that are not restricted in space. Default toggles are required to display a visible label and a state text.

Default toggle has an available feature flag.

Small toggle

The small toggle is often used in condensed spaces and appear inline with other components or content. The label and state text are optional for the small toggle.

Small toggle has an available feature flag.

Unlike the default toggle, the small toggle is more compact in size and displays a checkmark tick in the on state to ensure the toggle is still accessible without requiring visible label or state text. For example, inside data table rows.

Example of a small toggle in context without a visible label or state text

Example of a small toggle in context without a visible label or state text

Related

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM