Tree view

A tree view is a hierarchical structure that provides nested levels of navigation.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

A tree view consists of nested heading levels that create a content hierarchy for users and assist with navigating large amounts of information. Following on with the tree analogy, the tree view component has branch nodes that can be expanded or collapsed to reveal or hide child nodes. The tree may also have leaf nodes. Leaf nodes can appear at any level of the tree hierarchy and do not have child nodes.

A feature flag has been added to tree view to improve accessibility and changes parts of its functionality, not its visual appearance. For code-specific feature flag information, refer to the Code tab. The current tree view is not being deprecated, but teams are encouraged to use the feature flag tree view for their products moving forward. Once the next major release (v12) is released in the future, this feature flag will become the default version of the component.

Formatting

The tree view is composed of branch and leaf nodes that are designed to nest and organize large sets of information.

There are two node sizes: small (default), and extra small. Supporting two different node sizes gives you more flexibility when structuring a tree view. If you have a tree structure with complex nesting levels, use the extra small node size to keep as much information in view as possible. When in doubt of which size to use, use the small node size because it is our default.

Nodes stack directly on top of each other with 0px space between them. Having nodes flush with each other ensures consistent spacing and alignment between each node in the tree view.

Nested nodes in a tree view rely on vertical type and icon alignment to visually group nodes together. Branch icons and leaf icons sit to the left of type and align vertically.

Content

You may be able to label your nodes, or the labels may be generated from code. If you have control of your label names, follow these guidelines.

Be brief but clear while summarizing what kind of child nodes the branch node contains.

Be brief and descriptive about what information the leaf node contains.

If the node label is too long for one line in your tree view, add an ellipsis … and accompany with a browser-based tooltip to show the full string of text.

While truncation is not preferred, you can customize the view by positioning the ellipsis at the front-line, mid-line, or end-line of a node label depending on what information is most useful to the user to keep persistent in the tree view.

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Behaviors

Branch nodes and leaf nodes share the same styles for different states. The only difference between the structure of the two is the addition of a caret icon for expanding or collapsing branch nodes.

If the branch node of a selected child node is collapsed, the parent node should inherit the selected state so the user does not lose the context of what is selected, even if it is out of view.

Example of selected child node when the parent is open (left) and when the parent is collapsed (right).

Example of selected child node when the parent is open (left) and when the parent is collapsed (right).

When a single-select tree receives focus:

Modifiers

You can add node icons to visually represent and support a written node label. We recommend having consistent icon usage for all branch and leaf nodes. Make sure the icons accurately represent each node that they are related to. Using a folder icon for branch nodes and a document icon for leaf nodes is a commonly recognized pairing of icons used in tree view structures. If individual node data cannot be identified, do not display icons. When in doubt, use nodes without icons.

It is important when adding icons to nodes in a tree view that there is an icon present for every node. Not having an icon for every branch or leaf node can cause alignment inconsistencies and make groupings of nodes harder to visualize.

Do consistently use icons for each node in a tree view.

Do not mix text-only and icon nodes in a tree view.

Related

Use the accordion component when you need to organize lengthy information in sections that only go one level deep. Tree view is best used for nesting categories of information in a hierarchy of multiple levels / in a hierarchical form.

Use the UI Shell left panel component for product navigation. A combination of the UI Shell left panel and the breadcrumb component can support an information architecture several levels deep of a product. Tree view is best used for on page navigation instead of being used for architecture of a website or product.

Use the data table component for displaying large amounts of detailed information that is easy to scan horizontally in one view. Data table rows can be expanded, but we recommend only expanding a row one level deep. Tree view is used to organize multiple nested levels of information with concise labels that do not need to be organized in a column structure.

References

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM