Progress bar

A progress bar provides feedback about the duration and progression of a process, such as a download, file transfer, or installation, to indicate how long a user will be waiting.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

A progress bar indicates that the user’s request has been received and the application is making progress toward completing the requested action. Progress bars inform users about the status of ongoing processes, the estimated time of how long a process will take, or if a request is being executed.

A progress bar can either be determinate or indeterminate. The determinate variant is visualized as a track on which a bar fills up from left to right representing the progress. The indeterminate variant is visualized as a track on which a bar is moving along in constant speed, repeating over time.

Determinate progress bars fill from 0 to 100%.

Determinate progress bars fill from 0 to 100%.

Indeterminate progress bars move along a fixed track continually until the process is complete.

Indeterminate progress bars move along a fixed track continually until the process is complete.

Determinate progress bar

Determinate progress bars are used when the loading progress can be tracked and translated into a bar indicator which fills the track from 0% to 100% and never decreases in value or resets.

Use a determinate progress bar when the progress can be calculated against a specific goal. For example, when downloading a file of a known size.

Indeterminate progress bar

Indeterminate progress bars are used when the loading progress is unknown or the amount of wait time can’t be calculated.

Once triggered, the bar indicator will quickly and repeatably move from left to right (Carbon reserves back and forth motions for skeletons), while data is being gathered during the first stages of the load. In this scenario, a percentage value would not be present. This bar may change to a determinate indicator if enough information is gathered to calculate the load completion. The final determinate stage of the load is used to visually indicate the completion of the task to the user.

It’s best to give the user transparency about the process which usually leads to increased trust in the software or platform. However, it may not be possible to provide progress estimation in certain cases. If progress data is not available, an indeterminate progress bar can be used.

As a more concrete set of examples, there are generally three different major progressions of a system operation: downloading, uploading, and local processing.

For downloading actions, it’s usually possible to get a value of progress and update it in real time for a determinate progress bar. Depending on the information reported from a data source, time remaining could be estimated based on how much has been downloaded so far over a time period.

Upload actions may be unable to report real time progress status depending on the data source and API configuration. However, always strive to provide users the determinate value whenever it’s possible to inform them about the process.

Data processing refers to manipulations of data to produce meaningful information. This can include currency exchange, file generation, data reformatting, or similar operations. Depending on the operation, time estimated or cycles to complete processing could be used to populate a determinate progress bar.

Formatting

The progress bar is offered in two different sizes—big (8px) and small (4px). The big progress bar height is typically used when there is large amounts of space on a page. The small progress bar height is commonly used when space is restricted and can be placed within cards, data tables, or side panels.

The width of a progress bar can vary based on the content. The minimum width of a progress bar is 48px and keep its width to a maximum of six columns when possible. If the progress bar width is too long, it can reduce readability. Don’t increase the progress bar length to fill the entire width of a window or application.

Do keep a width within six columns.

Do not exceed a width of six columns.

Text alignment depends on the context and area given. Progress bar can have three ways for text alignment: default, inline, and indent. Indent alignment should only be used inside containers, tiles, or side panels which the progress bar will extend to the edges.

A few common examples of text alignment for progress bars

Labels should always be placed above the progress bar for readability, and helper text below or beside. Avoid placing text inside the progress bar indicator or track. This visual could cause clutter and inconsistency in text alignment. Meanwhile, placing the text far away from the progress bar could cause confusion in the context.

Do place text close to the progress bar.

Do not embed text into the progress bar.

Do place text close to the progress bar.

Do not place text far away from the progress bar.

For RTL (right-to-left) languages, the layout of the progress bar is mirrored for both determinate and indeterminate options. The label is right-aligned, the value is left-aligned, and the fill progresses from right to left. Keep in mind that the placement of the percent sign differs depending on the locale.

Content

Determinate and indeterminate progress bars both have a label and an optional helper text. However, the indeterminate can’t provide the exact, quantitative information about the progression in the optional helper text.

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Universal behaviors

There are three statuses for the progress bar: active, success, and error. These statuses also apply on both indeterminate and determinate progress bars. After the process completes successfully or unsuccessfully, a progress bar can either remain persistent as confirmation or validation, or it can be automatically dismissed depending on what is most suitable for the use case.

The active status, represented by an animated blue bar indicator, conveys that the action is still in progress.

The success status, conveyed by a full-width green progress bar and checkmark icon, indicates that the action completed successfully.

The error status indicates that the action did not successfully complete. If an error occurs, an inline notification or error handling within the form should appear. As soon as a process fails, the indicator bar’s progress spans full width, turns red, and remains visible. A failed icon is also shown.

The example shows the progress bar with error remains persistent as confirmation inside the image tile.

The example shows the progress bar with error remains persistent as confirmation inside the image tile.

The example shows the progress bar is automatically dismissed once it’s done uploading.

The example shows the progress bar is automatically dismissed once it’s done uploading.

While the progress bar is processing information on part of a page, you can still interact with other elements on the page. When the progress bar finishes processing it can either remain persistent on the page for confirmation or automatically dismiss itself depending on the use case.

The example shows the progress bar is active and separated from other interactive elements.

The example shows the progress bar is active and separated from other interactive elements.

While the progress bar is processing information that could affect multiple pieces of content within a container, such as a card, depending on the use case, the whole container should become inactive until processing has been completed or the specific section within the container being processed should become inactive until processing has been completed. The user should be able to interact with the rest of the container or page that is unaffected by the progress bar.

The example shows the ‘View task’ action button is disabled inside the ‘Tasks’ container while the progress bar is active.

The example shows the ‘View task’ action button is disabled inside the ‘Tasks’ container while the progress bar is active.

Modifiers

An indeterminate bar can change to a determinate indicator (finishing from left to right) when enough information is gathered to end the load animation.

Accessibility

Related

References

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM