Dropdown

Dropdowns have a list of options that a user can select from. These selections can fill in a form, filter, or sort content.

Dropdown, combo box, and multiselect with AI label are now stable. These additions change the visual appearance of the component and introduce an AI explainability feature when AI is present in the components. See the AI presence section for more details.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

There are three different variants of dropdowns that support various kinds of functionality—dropdown, multiselect, and combo box.

Dropdowns can be used in forms on full pages, in modals, or on side panels. The dropdown component is used to filter or sort contents on a page. It is a stylized version of the select component, and can be styled as needed.

It is best practice not to use a dropdown if there are two options to choose from. In this case, use a radio button group instead.

Do not nest dropdowns or use them to display overly complex information. Keep option selections as straight forward as possible.

Consider using a select if most of your experience is form-based or frequently used on mobile platforms. The native HTML select works more easily when submitting data and is also easier to use on a mobile platform.

Formatting

Dropdowns are composed of four distinct sections—assistive text like labels or helper text, a field, a menu, and options contained within the menu. Labels and helper text can guide the user to make an informed decision when making a selection.

There are two styles of dropdown inputs: default and fluid. They share the same functionality but look visually different, influencing where to use them.

A default style input is shown on the left and fluid style is on the right.

A default style input is shown on the left and fluid style is on the right.

There are three default dropdown height sizes: small, medium, and large. Supporting three different dropdown sizes gives you more flexibility when structuring layouts. However, use a consistent size for all form components on the same page. For example, if you are using a medium size dropdown also use the same size text inputs, buttons, and so on. When in doubt, use the default medium size height.

When the menu is open, each option in the menu should be the same height as the field.

In the fluid dropdown, there is only one input height but there are two menu item sizes–default and condensed.

There is no minimum or maximum width for a dropdown. The width can be customized appropriately for its context.

Field containers should vertically align with other form components on a page. Whether it aligns flush to grid columns or hangs in the gutters depends on the style of dropdown you are using.

Do align default style dropdown containers flush to the grid so the input label aligns with other type on the page.

Don't hang default style dropdowns into the grid gutters.

Do place fluid components flush to on another with no spacing between them.

Do not use fluid components with vertical or horizontal spacing between them.

Content

Dropdowns can be labeled as either optional or required depending on several factors. For more information, see the form Usage tab guidance.

Avoid multiple lines of text in a dropdown. If the text is too long for a single line, add an ellipsis (…) for overflow, and use a tooltip to display the full text—preferably a Carbon tooltip for keyboard accessibility where possible.

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Universal behaviors

The behaviors listed in this section are universal across all of the variants. For behaviors that are unique to each variant, see the sections below.

A dropdown can open up or down depending on its position on the screen. For example, if the dropdown appears at the bottom and close to the edge of the interface, the menu expands upward to avoid being cropped. By default, our dropdowns open downward.

The dropdown menu has a style called box-shadow that is placed behind the menu when open to give the menu a perceived higher elevation than the content that may fall behind it. Box-shadow is also used in other components that have overlaid menus, such as the overflow menu and date picker calendar. The SCSS for box-shadow is 0 2px 6px 0 rgba(0,0,0,.2).

Scroll bars may not always be enabled so we recommend showing 50% of the last option’s container height to indicate there is more to see within the menu. We recommend starting a scroll at the sixth option in the menu list, but this may vary based on your specific use case.

Dropdowns, combo boxes, and multiselects have a series of states for both their fields and menus: enabled, hover, focus, error, warning, disabled, skeleton, and read-only. For more information on states, visit the interactive states guidance on the style tab.

Vertical dividers act as a visual separator between interactive elements in an input field. These vertical dividers are only present between two interactive elements, they should not be introduced between non-interactive elements like error states, other non-interactive icons, or buttons.

A divider will also be present to the left of the leftmost interactive item set, even if it’s next to a non-interactive item.

Do introduce a vertical divider between two interactive elements in an input field.

Do not introduce a vertical divider between interactive and non-interactive elements in an input field.

Do introduce a vertical divider to the left of the leftmost interactive set in an input field.

Do not use vertical dividers inconsistently in the same icon set, where some icons have vertical dividers and some do not.

Do introduce a vertical divider to the left of the leftmost interactive set in an input field.

Do not use vertical dividers inconsistently in the same icon set, where some icons have vertical dividers and some do not.

Users trigger a dropdown menu to open by clicking the chevron icon or clicking anywhere within the field. Users can close the menu by clicking the chevron icon or clicking outside of the menu.

A dropdown component and its variants multiselect and combo box are reached by Tab, with navigation of the options by Up and Down arrow keys. However, the keys for opening the component and selecting its options are different for each variant. For more information on keyboard interactions, see the accessibility tab.

Dropdown

Use a dropdown when the user needs to select one option from a list of predefined options. Dropdowns are the optimal default option to provide alternative choices. They are also a good choice when screen space is limited.

Multiselect

Use a multiselect when the user needs to select multiple options from a list of predefined options. Multiselects are a good option when the user needs to filter or sort content on a page based on multiple criteria. A checkbox icon is included for each option in the list to enable multiselection.

The parent checkbox associated to the parent option makes it possible for the user to select all options from the list. Although the parent checkbox element is used only for multiselect dropdowns, it is not mandated to be present in all multiselect dropdowns.

The parent checkbox has a third indeterminate state and appears when some and not all options have been selected.

We recommend not to use the parent checkbox in scenarios like filters when choosing all and choosing none means the same.

To clear all selected options from a list, hover over the filterable tag and click the “x” (or close) icon next to the value. To help with clarity, a browser tooltip appears when the user hovers over the “x” icon to indicate the click action results. If you want to unselect individual options, you can do so by unselecting the checkbox of each option.

Use filtering to narrow down a long list of options to find the option you want to select.

Combo box

Use a combo box when the user needs to select one option, but the list of options may be very long or not predefined. Combo boxes allow the user to either select from a list of suggested options or type in their own custom value. Combo boxes are useful when the data populating the list may come from a database.

In a combo box, users can type in a custom or unique value that is not included in the list of predefined options.

Modifiers

When placing a dropdown inline with other content use the inline modifier. If adding a visual label to an inline dropdown it should appear inline to the left of the dropdown. If there is no visual label present you must supply an appropriate accessibility label to the inline dropdown. Note that inline is only a modifier for dropdown and multiselect components, and it does not include filtering functionality.

AI presence

Dropdown and its variants have a modification that takes on the AI visual styling when the AI label is present in the input. The AI variant of these components function the same as the normal version except with the addition of the AI label which is both a visual indicator and the trigger for the explainability popover.

For more information on designing for AI, see the Carbon for AI guidelines.

A dropdown can toggle between the AI variant and the non-AI variant depending on the user’s interaction. If the user manually overrides the AI-suggested content then the input will change from the AI variant to the non-AI variant. Once edited, the user should still be able to switch back to the initially AI generated content via a revert to AI button.

Related

Checkboxes are used when there are multiple options to select in a list. Users can select zero, one, or any number of options. For further guidance, see Carbon’s checkbox.

A form is a group of related input controls that allows users to provide data or configure options. For further guidance, see Carbon’s form.

Radio buttons are used when there is a group of mutually exclusive choices and only one selection from the group is allowed. For further guidance, see Carbon’sradio button.

select

Dropdown and select components have functionality and style differences.

While the dropdown and combo box look similar they have different functions.

References

Angie Li, Dropdown: Design Guidelines (Nielsen Norman Group, 2017)

Feedback

Help us improve this pattern by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM