Date picker

Date and time pickers allow users to select a single instance or range of dates and times.

Date picker with AI label is now stable. This addition changes the visual appearance of the component and introduces an AI explainability feature when AI is present in the component. See the AI presence section for more details.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

Date pickers allow users to select past, present, or future dates. The kind of date you are requesting from the user will determine which date picker (simple or calendar) is best to use. A time picker helps users select a specific time. You can customize the time picker’s format depending on location or need.

Formatting

Anatomy of a simple date input and a single date calendar picker.

Anatomy of a simple date input and a single date calendar picker.

There are two styles of date picker inputs, default and fluid. They share the same functionality but look visually different, influencing where to use them.

The default input fields for date and time picker come in three height sizes: small (32px), medium (40px), and large (48px). The calendar menu in the date picker is a fixed height and width and does not change with the input size.

There is only one fluid input height and it is visually larger than the default heights. The input is a set height of 64px except when a warning or error message has been added to the bottom.

By default, the pickers have set widths. If you are placing the picker inline with other inputs, such as in a form, then the widths can be adjusted to match the other inputs. The picker can either increase or decrease in width as needed. If you adjust the size, be aware that pickers have minimum widths and the date content should never horizontally scroll or overflow.

The calendar itself will always remain a set width and is not adjustable. It should always be aligned to the left edge of its assigned text field.

Content

Example suggesting the proper date format in helper text on the left or in a label on the right.

Example suggesting the proper date format in helper text on the left or in a label on the right.

Example of formatting dates with American English format on the left and International Standard format on the right.

Example of formatting dates with American English format on the left and International Standard format on the right.

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Universal behaviors

The behaviors listed in this section are universal across all of the variants. For behaviors that are unique to each variant, see each of the component variant sections below.

The date picker input is a text input and has the same interactive state and behaviors. Only date pickers with calendars will have the calendar icon present in the right side of the input field. See the style tab for more details. For calendar menu states, see the calendar variants section.

The time picker is a combination of a text input and select inputs and has the same interactive state and behaviors. See the style tab for more details.

Invalid fields should be clearly marked. In pickers with more than one field, the invalid state should only be set on the individual factor that is triggering the error so the user can clearly understand which to address.

Internationalization, also referred to as globalization, refers to software adapting to different languages, regional peculiarities, and technical requirements of a target locale without additional code changes. This means that if the location is known, then formatting of a date or time can automatically change to the acceptable local format. You should always try to design for internationalization.

Simple date input

The simple date input provides the user with only a text field in which they can manually input a date. It allows dates to be entered without adding unnecessary interactions that come with the calendar menu or a dropdown.

The simple date input can include month/year or month/day/year. The formatting may be localized and rearranged in sequence of appearance.

Simple date inputs are typically used when the date is known by the user, such as a date of birth or credit card expiration.

Simple date inputs are best for when asking the user for an approximate date instead of an exact date, especially in regards to past dates. For example, when was asking a user when a purchase was made they will most likely easily recall the month and year (November 2019) versus the specific date (November 22, 2019).

Calendar pickers

Calendar pickers default to showing today’s date when opened and only one month is shown at a time. Calendar pickers allow users to navigate through months and years, however they work best when used for recent or near future dates. If a user needs to input a far distant or future date consider having the calendar default open to a more convenient day.

Keep in mind that some users may find calendar pickers difficult to use. There should always be a simple way to enter dates in a text field when using calendar pickers.

Use a calendar picker when the user needs to know a date’s relation to other days such as the day of the week it falls on or its proximity to today. They are optimal for scheduling tasks.

In a single date picker a user has the option to either manually input a date in the text field or select one specific date from the menu calendar. It requires a day, month, and year to be selected.

The date range picker functions much like the single date picker but instead of choosing just one date the user can choose a start and end date. For each date in the range, users have the option to manually enter the date in a text field or select the date in the calendar. Each point requires a day, month, and year to be selected.

The calendar can be opened in two ways:

A date can be selected by:

A user can navigate between the months in a year by:

By default the current date and year appears in the calendar. To navigate to another year the user can do one of the following:

The calendar can be closed in one of the following ways:

There are several ways in which a range can be selected:

In order to constrain the possible selectable dates in a calendar, a min and max date may be set. Once set, only the dates that fall within the min/max range will be selectable with the dates outside of the range being disabled.

Use min and max dates to help prevent user error. If a user cannot select dates in the past when scheduling, then set a min date to today.

The dates before today are out of range and disabled.

Time pickers

Time pickers provide the user with a text field in which they can input the hour and minutes. Additionally, they can be accompanied by an AM/PM and a time zone control, both styled as selects.

The time field format should include the hour and minutes, for example 11:30. It may be localized to accommodate the 12-hour or 24-hour format.

Use the time picker when a specific time needs to be scheduled, such as planning a meeting time.

AI presence

Date picker has a modification that takes on the AI visual styling when the AI label is present in the input. The AI variant functions the same as the normal version except with the addition of the AI label which is both a visual indicator and the trigger for the explainability popover.

For more information on designing for AI, see the Carbon for AI guidelines.

A date picker can toggle between the AI variant and the non-AI variant depending on the user’s interaction. If the user manually overrides the AI-suggested content then the input will change from the AI variant to the non-AI variant. Once edited, the user should still be able to switch back to the initially AI generated content via a revert to AI button.

Related

Another common use case not accounted for in the above pickers is setting a time or date relative to today or now, such as with a reminder. For example, setting an install to begin now, in one hour, or tonight. This variant of picker can made by using the standard select component.

Another acceptable form of a date experience would be using individual inputs for each factor. Using an individual field for each factor of a date can help reduce formatting errors. This is especially beneficial when localization cannot be used to reformat dates.

Instead of having one input for an exact date (month/day/year), you could have three separate inputs and a clear label for each.

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM