Form

A form is a group of related input controls that allows users to provide data or configure options.

Form with AI label is now stable. This addition changes the visual appearance of the component and introduces an AI explainability feature when AI is present in the component. See the AI presence section for more details.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

The form component is configurable to fit various use cases and layouts. It is purposely simple out of the box, and users are responsible for configuring it to suit their needs. For in-depth design guidance on the different ways to configure and extend a form, see the form pattern.

Formatting

Forms can use two styles of inputs: default and fluid. They share the same functionality but look visually different and have different alignment rules.

In a form, input components should vertically align with all other form components. Whether a form aligns flush to grid columns or hangs in the gutters depends on the style of form input you are using as well as the gutter mode. Default forms typically use a wide gutter mode and align flush to the grid columns prioritizing vertical label alignment. Fluid forms use the condensed grid and can hang into the gutter without causing label misalignment. Fluid forms are architectural and remain cohesive by never allowing vertical or horizontal space between inputs.

Do align default form inputs and labels to the grid columns using the wide gutter mode.

Don’t hang default inputs into the grid gutters. Doing so will cause labels to misalign with other form elements.

Do stack fluid components flush to one another with no spacing between them using the condensed gutter mode.

Don’t add vertical or horizontal space between fluid components. Fluid forms are architectural and should remain a cohesive unit.

If a form has more than one column, then the columns should be proportional and align to grid columns when possible. The space between form columns is determined by the gutter mode you are using; default forms use the wide gutter mode with 32px padding between form columns, versus fluid forms use the condensed gutter mode with 1px padding. The narrow gutter mode (16px) is typically not used in forms as it often places the text in the gutter.

When using two columns, the row should respond as a group. For example, if the left column form item becomes invalid and pushes form content down to accommodate space for an error message, then the accompanying right form item will also grow to account for the needed space.

The typical recommended vertical spacing between components is 32px. For all guidance and recommendation for spacing for forms, see the form pattern.

Content

Effective labeling helps users understand what information to enter into a text input. Text fields should always have a label. There are rare instances where the context of an input negates the need for a visible label, but we advise you to consult an accessibility expert before proceeding with a label-less design.

Where possible, add programmatic assistance. Detect and pre-fill inputs to reduce errors and save time. When the software can’t determine the value that belongs in an input, use type-ahead to make suggestions. Use sentence-case for default values, detected values, and auto-completion text.

Optional helper text is pertinent information that assists the user in correctly completing a field. Helper text should always be available when the input is focused. It is often used to explain the correct data format. Helper text appears as persistent text under a default input (helper text is not available in fluid input, which uses tooltips instead). Helper text is the preferred method of assisting users because it is always visible for the user to reference without additional effort.

Tooltips can be added inline with a form label if additional non-pertinent information is needed to assist the user in correctly completing a field, such as context setting. Tooltip content may include more in-depth information about the field or the options the user is choosing from. Links to additional information or references may also be included if needed. In certain situations where complex instructions or additional context would be appropriate, tooltips can be used in addition to the helper text. However, it is recommended that all pertinent assistive information to form completion—such as format content—be presented simply and directly as helper text under the field and not be in a tooltip.

Fluid inputs are an exception to the no critical information in tooltips rule. Due to their architectural nature, fluid inputs do not provide the allotted space under the field needed for helper text. All assistive text whether pertinent or additional, is provided through a tooltip when using fluid inputs.

Optional placeholder text is text that appears inside an input field at a lower contrast than the user input text. It provides hints or examples of what to enter. Placeholder text disappears after the user begins entering data into the input. As such, it should not be used as a replacement for a persistent label nor should it contain crucial information. Sometimes providing an example of the kind of thing the user might enter is useful. Using certain examples as placeholder text is allowed but it still should not contain essential information.

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Behaviors

Forms items can be labeled as either optional or required depending on several factors. A common distinction in IBM products for using required or optional is the forms complexity.

Note if the majority of the fields are required or optional, as the overall number of form fields for your entire product should inform your treatment. The pattern used should be consistent throughout your product, or at minimum, consistent between all of the same types of form within your product.

Carbon provides a variety of data input components that enable a user to enter or select data. The components are divided into three different interaction types.

The following are common states that can be applied to components when used in a form.

Additional guidance

The form pattern provides additional and elaborative guidance to the information found with the form component. Below is a list of key sections available in the pattern.

AI presence

Form has a modification that takes on the AI visual styling when AI is present in the form. The AI variants of a form function the same as the normal variants except for the addition of the AI label, which is both a visual indicator and the trigger for the explainability popover.

The AI presence in form can appear in two ways: broadly, over the whole form, or focused, just in certain parts of the form. When the entire form is styled for AI, it indicates to the user that AI is present in all aspects of the form. If only a limited amount of the form content is generated by AI, then only those components should receive the AI presence styling, not the entire form.

For more information on designing for AI, see the Carbon for AI guidelines.

Example of form with full AI presence on the left and component based AI presence on the right.

Example of form with full AI presence on the left and component based AI presence on the right.

Related

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM