Breadcrumb

The breadcrumb is a secondary navigation pattern that helps a user understand the hierarchy among levels and navigate back through them.

Live demo

This live demo contains only a preview of functionality and styles available for this component. View the full demo on Storybook for additional information such as its version, controls, and API documentation.

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are stable.

Overview

Breadcrumbs show users their current location relative to the information architecture and enable them to quickly move up to a parent level or previous step.

Breadcrumbs are effective in products and experiences that have a large amount of content organized in a hierarchy of more than two levels. They take up little space but still provide context for the user’s place in the navigation hierarchy.

Breadcrumbs are always treated as secondary and should never entirely replace the primary navigation. They shouldn’t be used for products that have single level navigation because they create unnecessary clutter.

If you are taking users through a multistep process use a progress indicator instead.

Carbon supports two types of breadcrumbs. Both types are styled the same, but the methods for populating the breadcrumb trail are different. The breadcrumb type used should be consistent across a product.

Formatting

There are two different sizes of breadcrumbs: small and medium. The small breadcrumb uses the $label-01 type token, while the medium breadcrumb uses the $body-compact-01 type token.

Small and medium sizes of breadcrumb

Small breadcrumbs are commonly used in page headers. They can also be used in condensed spaces and for smaller breakpoints. You may also choose to use the small breadcrumb when trying to achieve a balanced content hierarchy and need a smaller breadcrumb to pair with.

Example shows the use of small breadcrumbs

Medium breadcrumbs are typically used when there is no page header and are placed at the top of a page. The default size of breadcrumb is the medium size.

Example shows the use of medium default breadcrumbs

Breadcrumbs are placed in the top left portion of the page. They sit underneath the header and navigation, but above the page title.

Content

When space becomes limited, use an overflow menu to truncate the breadcrumbs. The first and last two page links should be shown, but the remaining breadcrumbs in between are condensed into an overflow menu. Breadcrumbs should never wrap onto a second line.

For most use cases at larger breakpoints, keep the first home breadcrumb link for as long as possible in breakpoints, even when an overflow might be present. Also for mobile or small viewpoints, start with the overflow first, following by one breadcrumb.

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s content guidelines.

Behaviors

All the pages in the breadcrumb component should be interactive (except the current page) and link to their respective pages.

Users can trigger an item by clicking on a breadcrumb page link. The separators between page links are not interactive.

Users can navigate between breadcrumb links by pressing Tab and Shift-Tab. Users can trigger a breadcrumb link by pressing Enter while the link has focus. For additional keyboard interactions, see the accessibility tab.

Modifiers

By default, Carbon breadcrumb trails should not include the current page. If a page doesn’t have a title or the current page is not clear, it can be included in the breadcrumb trail. If the current page is included in a breadcrumb trail, it is always the last text listed and is not an interactive link.

Related

Feedback

Help us improve this component by providing feedback, asking questions, and leaving any other comments on GitHub.

Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.97.0
Last updated 19 December 2025
Copyright © 2026 IBM